# Regression Modeling for Predicting Optimal Real Estate Prices in Chile

Real estate industry in Chile has been thriving in the past few years. However, we do not exactly know what factors determine the price of residential properties in Chile as predictive characteristics differ between one country and another. For that, we used data from a Real Estate company in Chile in order to determine significant predictors and applied statistical analysis and predictive modeling. The first aim of this study is to check which variables (floor number, typology, view orientation, size, and region) are significantly correlated with the sale price of apartments and can be used for predicting the prices. The second aim is to employ a predictive model using a multiple linear regression technique which uses significant predictors for estimating and predicting sale price of residential properties. The results of the study show that all the variables are significantly correlated with the price per meter squared except for the region (Norte and Santiago). The results also reveal that there exists a negative correlation between floor number and price per meter squared. This is likely due to the fact that Chile is subject to earthquakes, and that the demand for lower floor apartments is higher as they provide better safety from earthquakes. We employed two linear regression models, one including all the variables and the other all except the region. Despite the fact that region is not significantly correlated with price, the first model performed better in terms of prediction and region turned out to be a significant predictor after all. Future research can use additional variables for prediction models such as the age and specific location of the apartment. They can also use other predictive techniques such as Random Forest, Support Vector Machine and Neural Networks which can provide better options for prediction.

_Check out the R code and the project report for more information_
